docs/README.md, before:

# Documentation for Maintainers

Welcome! This documentation will help you understand and maintain the ngx-pinch-zoom library.

## 📚 Documentation Overview

### For New Maintainers - Start Here

1. **[QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md)** ⚡
    - Fast lookup for common tasks
    - Code locations
    - Common patterns
    - Debugging checklist
    - **Read this first for quick answers!**

2. **[ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)** 🏗️
    - Deep dive into how everything works
    - Component interaction diagrams
    - Transform mathematics explained
    - Event flow documentation
    - **Read this to understand the system**

3. **[IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md)** 🛠️
    - Step-by-step implementation examples
    - How to add features
    - How to fix bugs
    - Code customizations
    - **Read this when making changes**

### Documentation Organization

```
docs/
├── README.md                    ← You are here
├── QUICK_REFERENCE.md          ← Fast lookup guide
├── ARCHITECTURE.md             ← How it works (detailed)
└── IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md     ← How to change it (examples)
```

## 🎯 Learning Path

### If you're brand new:

1. **5 minutes**: Skim [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) - "Key Concepts" section
2. **20 minutes**: Read [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) - "Overview" and "Component Architecture"
3. **15 minutes**: Browse the source code in `projects/ngx-pinch-zoom/src/lib/`
4. **As needed**: Reference [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) when implementing

### If you need to fix a bug:

1. Check [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) - "Debugging Checklist"
2. Look up the bug type in [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) - "Fixing Bugs"
3. Reference [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) for the affected system

### If you need to add a feature:

1. Read [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) - "Adding New Features"
2. Reference [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) - "Component Architecture"
3. Check [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) - "Code Locations"

## 🔍 Quick Answers

### "Where do I find...?"

| Question                      | Answer                                                    |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| How pinch zoom works?         | ARCHITECTURE.md → "Transform Mathematics"                 |
| How to add an input property? | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Adding New Features"           |
| Why isn't pan working?        | QUICK_REFERENCE.md → "Debugging Checklist"                |
| What is `transformElement()`? | ARCHITECTURE.md → "Transform Mathematics"                 |
| How to add rotation?          | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Feature: Add Rotation Support" |
| Performance best practices?   | QUICK_REFERENCE.md → "Performance Tips"                   |
| Event flow diagram?           | ARCHITECTURE.md → "Event System"                          |

### "How do I...?"

| Task                     | Document                                                                |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Fix image jumping        | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Bug: Image Jumps on First Touch"             |
| Add custom zoom behavior | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Custom: Programmatic Zoom to Specific Point" |
| Debug transforms         | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Technique 1: Visual Transform Debugging"     |
| Improve performance      | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Performance Optimization"                    |
| Add zoom indicator       | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Custom: Zoom Level Indicator"                |

## 📖 Reading Code

### Source Files (In Order of Complexity)

1. **properties.ts** (Easiest)
    - Just default configuration values
    - Good starting point

2. **interfaces.ts** (Easy)
    - TypeScript type definitions
    - Understand data structures

3. **pinch-zoom.component.ts** (Medium)
    - Angular component with signals
    - See how properties flow

4. **touches.ts** (Medium-Hard)
    - Event detection logic
    - Gesture recognition

5. **ivypinch.ts** (Hardest)
    - Core zoom/pan mathematics
    - Transform calculations
    - **Most complex file in the library**

### Recommended Reading Order

```
1. Read QUICK_REFERENCE.md (Overview)
   ↓
2. Skim ARCHITECTURE.md (Understanding)
   ↓
3. Read properties.ts (See defaults)
   ↓
4. Read interfaces.ts (See data types)
   ↓
5. Browse pinch-zoom.component.ts (See signals)
   ↓
6. Read ivypinch.ts (See core logic)
   ↓
7. Reference IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md (When needed)
```

## 🎓 Understanding the System

### The Big Picture

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[User touches screen]:::userStyle
    B[Browser fires touch events]:::browserStyle
    C[Touches detects gestures<br/>pinch, pan, tap]:::touchStyle
    D[IvyPinch calculates transform<br/>scale, moveX, moveY]:::calcStyle
    E[IvyPinch applies<br/>CSS transform to DOM]:::domStyle
    F[Browser renders<br/>transformed image]:::renderStyle
    G[IvyPinch calls callback]:::callbackStyle
    H[PinchZoomComponent<br/>updates signals]:::signalStyle
    I[Angular updates UI<br/>if needed]:::uiStyle

    A --> B --> C --> D --> E --> F --> G --> H --> I

    classDef userStyle fill:#a371f7,stroke:#d29eff,color:#fff
    classDef browserStyle fill:#f85149,stroke:#ff7b72,color:#fff
    classDef touchStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef calcStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef domStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
    classDef renderStyle fill:#f85149,stroke:#ff7b72,color:#fff
    classDef callbackStyle fill:#d29922,stroke:#e3b341,color:#fff
    classDef signalStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef uiStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
```

### Key Concepts to Understand

1. **CSS Transform Matrix**
    - How we apply zoom and pan using a single CSS property
    - See: ARCHITECTURE.md → "Transform Mathematics"

2. **Signal-Based Reactivity**
    - How Angular signals provide fine-grained updates
    - See: ARCHITECTURE.md → "Signal Architecture"

3. **Gesture State Machine**
    - How events transition between states
    - See: QUICK_REFERENCE.md → "Gesture State Machine"

4. **Coordinate Systems**
    - Element-relative vs page-relative positions
    - See: ARCHITECTURE.md → "Transform Mathematics"

## 🛠️ Making Changes

### Before You Code

1. ✅ Read relevant documentation section
2. ✅ Understand the affected code path
3. ✅ Consider edge cases
4. ✅ Plan your implementation
5. ✅ Write the code
6. ✅ Test thoroughly
7. ✅ Update documentation if needed

### Code Quality Standards

- ✅ Add comments for complex logic
- ✅ Use descriptive variable names
- ✅ Keep functions small and focused
- ✅ Follow existing patterns
- ✅ Write type-safe TypeScript
- ✅ Test on both touch and mouse
- ✅ Check performance impact

## 🐛 Debugging

### Enable Verbose Logging

Add to IvyPinch methods:

```typescript
console.log('[IvyPinch] handlePinch', {
    scale: this.scale,
    distance: this.distance,
    moveX: this.moveX,
    moveY: this.moveY,
});
```

### Common Issues & Solutions

Check: QUICK_REFERENCE.md → "Common Gotchas"

## 📊 Architecture Diagrams

### Component Hierarchy

```mermaid
graph TD
    Root[PinchZoomComponent<br/>Angular Component]:::componentStyle

    Template[Template Projection<br/>ng-content]:::templateStyle
    Content[User's image/content]:::contentStyle

    Logic[IvyPinch<br/>Core Logic]:::logicStyle
    Events[Touches<br/>Event Handling]:::eventStyle

    Signals[Signals<br/>Reactivity]:::signalStyle
    InputSig[Input signals<br/>configuration]:::inputStyle
    InternalSig[Internal signals<br/>state]:::stateStyle
    ComputedSig[Computed signals<br/>derived]:::computedStyle
    OutputSig[Output signals<br/>events]:::outputStyle

    Root --> Template
    Template --> Content

    Root --> Logic
    Logic --> Events

    Root --> Signals
    Signals --> InputSig
    Signals --> InternalSig
    Signals --> ComputedSig
    Signals --> OutputSig

    classDef componentStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff,stroke-width:3px
    classDef templateStyle fill:#a371f7,stroke:#d29eff,color:#fff
    classDef contentStyle fill:#d29922,stroke:#e3b341,color:#fff
    classDef logicStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef eventStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
    classDef signalStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff,stroke-width:2px
    classDef inputStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef stateStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef computedStyle fill:#d29922,stroke:#e3b341,color:#fff
    classDef outputStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
```

### Data Flow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Configuration<br/>inputs]:::configStyle
    B[mergedProperties<br/>computed signal]:::computedStyle
    C[IvyPinch<br/>initialization]:::initStyle
    D[User gesture]:::userStyle
    E[Touches<br/>detection]:::detectionStyle
    F[IvyPinch<br/>calculation]:::calcStyle
    G[CSS transform<br/>update]:::transformStyle
    H[Scale<br/>callback]:::callbackStyle
    I[Component signal<br/>update]:::signalStyle
    J[Output event<br/>emission]:::outputStyle

    A --> B --> C --> D --> E --> F --> G --> H --> I --> J

    classDef configStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef computedStyle fill:#d29922,stroke:#e3b341,color:#fff
    classDef initStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef userStyle fill:#a371f7,stroke:#d29eff,color:#fff
    classDef detectionStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef calcStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef transformStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
    classDef callbackStyle fill:#f85149,stroke:#ff7b72,color:#fff
    classDef signalStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef outputStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
```

## 📝 Documentation Maintenance

### When to Update Docs

- ✅ Adding a new feature
- ✅ Changing public API
- ✅ Fixing a significant bug
- ✅ Discovering a gotcha
- ✅ Improving performance
- ✅ Refactoring architecture

### What to Update

- **ARCHITECTURE.md** - When changing how things work internally
- **IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md** - When adding common patterns
- **QUICK_REFERENCE.md** - When adding quick lookup info
- **CHANGELOG.md** - For every change (in root)
- **README.md** - For user-facing changes (in root)

## 🎯 Next Steps

### If you're just getting started:

1. Read [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) completely
2. Skim [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)
3. Run `npm run build` to see it compile
4. Make a small test change
5. Read [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) as needed

### If you're fixing a bug:

1. Reproduce the bug
2. Check [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) → "Debugging Checklist"
3. Add logging to understand what's happening
4. Reference [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) → "Fixing Bugs"
5. Implement fix
6. Test thoroughly
7. Update docs if needed

### If you're adding a feature:

1. Read [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) → "Adding New Features"
2. Follow the step-by-step guide
3. Reference [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) for context
4. Write and test implementation
5. Update documentation
6. Update CHANGELOG.md

## 🆘 Getting Help

### Documentation Not Clear?

1. Check if answer is in another doc file
2. Look at source code comments
3. Create an issue on GitHub
4. Consider improving the docs for others

### Still Stuck?

- Review the original library: https://github.com/drozhzhin-n-e/ngx-pinch-zoom
- Check Angular docs: https://angular.dev
- Search GitHub issues
- Ask in Angular community forums

## 🎉 Contributing Back

If you improve the documentation or code:

1. Test your changes
2. Update relevant documentation
3. Follow commit message format
4. Create a pull request
5. Help others by sharing knowledge!

---

**Happy coding!** These docs are living documents - improve them as you learn! 🚀

Commit message:

docs: Add comprehensive click-to-zoom documentation
Add real-world implementation example of click-to-zoom feature to maintainer documentation:

**IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md:**
- Complete step-by-step implementation guide showing how click-to-zoom was added
- Explains each component (input signals, IvyPinch method, template, CSS)
- Includes code snippets from actual implementation
- Shows real-world usage for anomaly detection use case
- Provides testing checklist

**docs/README.md:**
- Added click-to-zoom to "Where do I find...?" quick reference table
- Added to "How do I...?" task guide
- Helps maintainers quickly locate click-to-zoom documentation

This serves as a template for future feature additions and helps maintainers understand how to add similar interactive features to the library.

docs/README.md, after:

# Documentation for Maintainers

Welcome! This documentation will help you understand and maintain the ngx-pinch-zoom library.

## 📚 Documentation Overview

### For New Maintainers - Start Here

1. **[QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md)** ⚡
    - Fast lookup for common tasks
    - Code locations
    - Common patterns
    - Debugging checklist
    - **Read this first for quick answers!**

2. **[ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)** 🏗️
    - Deep dive into how everything works
    - Component interaction diagrams
    - Transform mathematics explained
    - Event flow documentation
    - **Read this to understand the system**

3. **[IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md)** 🛠️
    - Step-by-step implementation examples
    - How to add features
    - How to fix bugs
    - Code customizations
    - **Read this when making changes**

### Documentation Organization

```
docs/
├── README.md                    ← You are here
├── QUICK_REFERENCE.md          ← Fast lookup guide
├── ARCHITECTURE.md             ← How it works (detailed)
└── IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md     ← How to change it (examples)
```

## 🎯 Learning Path

### If you're brand new:

1. **5 minutes**: Skim [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) - "Key Concepts" section
2. **20 minutes**: Read [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) - "Overview" and "Component Architecture"
3. **15 minutes**: Browse the source code in `projects/ngx-pinch-zoom/src/lib/`
4. **As needed**: Reference [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) when implementing

### If you need to fix a bug:

1. Check [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) - "Debugging Checklist"
2. Look up the bug type in [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) - "Fixing Bugs"
3. Reference [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) for the affected system

### If you need to add a feature:

1. Read [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) - "Adding New Features"
2. Reference [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) - "Component Architecture"
3. Check [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) - "Code Locations"

## 🔍 Quick Answers

### "Where do I find...?"

| Question                      | Answer                                                    |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| How pinch zoom works?         | ARCHITECTURE.md → "Transform Mathematics"                 |
| How to add an input property? | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Adding New Features"           |
| Why isn't pan working?        | QUICK_REFERENCE.md → "Debugging Checklist"                |
| What is `transformElement()`? | ARCHITECTURE.md → "Transform Mathematics"                 |
| How to add rotation?          | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Feature: Add Rotation Support" |
| How click-to-zoom works?      | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Feature: Click-to-Zoom"        |
| Performance best practices?   | QUICK_REFERENCE.md → "Performance Tips"                   |
| Event flow diagram?           | ARCHITECTURE.md → "Event System"                          |

### "How do I...?"

| Task                     | Document                                                                |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Fix image jumping        | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Bug: Image Jumps on First Touch"             |
| Add click-to-zoom        | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Feature: Click-to-Zoom"                      |
| Add custom zoom behavior | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Custom: Programmatic Zoom to Specific Point" |
| Debug transforms         | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Technique 1: Visual Transform Debugging"     |
| Improve performance      | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Performance Optimization"                    |
| Add zoom indicator       | IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md → "Custom: Zoom Level Indicator"                |

## 📖 Reading Code

### Source Files (In Order of Complexity)

1. **properties.ts** (Easiest)
    - Just default configuration values
    - Good starting point

2. **interfaces.ts** (Easy)
    - TypeScript type definitions
    - Understand data structures

3. **pinch-zoom.component.ts** (Medium)
    - Angular component with signals
    - See how properties flow

4. **touches.ts** (Medium-Hard)
    - Event detection logic
    - Gesture recognition

5. **ivypinch.ts** (Hardest)
    - Core zoom/pan mathematics
    - Transform calculations
    - **Most complex file in the library**

### Recommended Reading Order

```
1. Read QUICK_REFERENCE.md (Overview)
   ↓
2. Skim ARCHITECTURE.md (Understanding)
   ↓
3. Read properties.ts (See defaults)
   ↓
4. Read interfaces.ts (See data types)
   ↓
5. Browse pinch-zoom.component.ts (See signals)
   ↓
6. Read ivypinch.ts (See core logic)
   ↓
7. Reference IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md (When needed)
```

## 🎓 Understanding the System

### The Big Picture

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[User touches screen]:::userStyle
    B[Browser fires touch events]:::browserStyle
    C[Touches detects gestures<br/>pinch, pan, tap]:::touchStyle
    D[IvyPinch calculates transform<br/>scale, moveX, moveY]:::calcStyle
    E[IvyPinch applies<br/>CSS transform to DOM]:::domStyle
    F[Browser renders<br/>transformed image]:::renderStyle
    G[IvyPinch calls callback]:::callbackStyle
    H[PinchZoomComponent<br/>updates signals]:::signalStyle
    I[Angular updates UI<br/>if needed]:::uiStyle

    A --> B --> C --> D --> E --> F --> G --> H --> I

    classDef userStyle fill:#a371f7,stroke:#d29eff,color:#fff
    classDef browserStyle fill:#f85149,stroke:#ff7b72,color:#fff
    classDef touchStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef calcStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef domStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
    classDef renderStyle fill:#f85149,stroke:#ff7b72,color:#fff
    classDef callbackStyle fill:#d29922,stroke:#e3b341,color:#fff
    classDef signalStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef uiStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
```

### Key Concepts to Understand

1. **CSS Transform Matrix**
    - How we apply zoom and pan using a single CSS property
    - See: ARCHITECTURE.md → "Transform Mathematics"

2. **Signal-Based Reactivity**
    - How Angular signals provide fine-grained updates
    - See: ARCHITECTURE.md → "Signal Architecture"

3. **Gesture State Machine**
    - How events transition between states
    - See: QUICK_REFERENCE.md → "Gesture State Machine"

4. **Coordinate Systems**
    - Element-relative vs page-relative positions
    - See: ARCHITECTURE.md → "Transform Mathematics"

## 🛠️ Making Changes

### Before You Code

1. ✅ Read relevant documentation section
2. ✅ Understand the affected code path
3. ✅ Consider edge cases
4. ✅ Plan your implementation
5. ✅ Write the code
6. ✅ Test thoroughly
7. ✅ Update documentation if needed

### Code Quality Standards

- ✅ Add comments for complex logic
- ✅ Use descriptive variable names
- ✅ Keep functions small and focused
- ✅ Follow existing patterns
- ✅ Write type-safe TypeScript
- ✅ Test on both touch and mouse
- ✅ Check performance impact

## 🐛 Debugging

### Enable Verbose Logging

Add to IvyPinch methods:

```typescript
console.log('[IvyPinch] handlePinch', {
    scale: this.scale,
    distance: this.distance,
    moveX: this.moveX,
    moveY: this.moveY,
});
```

### Common Issues & Solutions

Check: QUICK_REFERENCE.md → "Common Gotchas"

## 📊 Architecture Diagrams

### Component Hierarchy

```mermaid
graph TD
    Root[PinchZoomComponent<br/>Angular Component]:::componentStyle

    Template[Template Projection<br/>ng-content]:::templateStyle
    Content[User's image/content]:::contentStyle

    Logic[IvyPinch<br/>Core Logic]:::logicStyle
    Events[Touches<br/>Event Handling]:::eventStyle

    Signals[Signals<br/>Reactivity]:::signalStyle
    InputSig[Input signals<br/>configuration]:::inputStyle
    InternalSig[Internal signals<br/>state]:::stateStyle
    ComputedSig[Computed signals<br/>derived]:::computedStyle
    OutputSig[Output signals<br/>events]:::outputStyle

    Root --> Template
    Template --> Content

    Root --> Logic
    Logic --> Events

    Root --> Signals
    Signals --> InputSig
    Signals --> InternalSig
    Signals --> ComputedSig
    Signals --> OutputSig

    classDef componentStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff,stroke-width:3px
    classDef templateStyle fill:#a371f7,stroke:#d29eff,color:#fff
    classDef contentStyle fill:#d29922,stroke:#e3b341,color:#fff
    classDef logicStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef eventStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
    classDef signalStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff,stroke-width:2px
    classDef inputStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef stateStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef computedStyle fill:#d29922,stroke:#e3b341,color:#fff
    classDef outputStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
```

### Data Flow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Configuration<br/>inputs]:::configStyle
    B[mergedProperties<br/>computed signal]:::computedStyle
    C[IvyPinch<br/>initialization]:::initStyle
    D[User gesture]:::userStyle
    E[Touches<br/>detection]:::detectionStyle
    F[IvyPinch<br/>calculation]:::calcStyle
    G[CSS transform<br/>update]:::transformStyle
    H[Scale<br/>callback]:::callbackStyle
    I[Component signal<br/>update]:::signalStyle
    J[Output event<br/>emission]:::outputStyle

    A --> B --> C --> D --> E --> F --> G --> H --> I --> J

    classDef configStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef computedStyle fill:#d29922,stroke:#e3b341,color:#fff
    classDef initStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef userStyle fill:#a371f7,stroke:#d29eff,color:#fff
    classDef detectionStyle fill:#3fb950,stroke:#56d364,color:#fff
    classDef calcStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef transformStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
    classDef callbackStyle fill:#f85149,stroke:#ff7b72,color:#fff
    classDef signalStyle fill:#58a6ff,stroke:#79c0ff,color:#fff
    classDef outputStyle fill:#db61a2,stroke:#f778ba,color:#fff
```

## 📝 Documentation Maintenance

### When to Update Docs

- ✅ Adding a new feature
- ✅ Changing public API
- ✅ Fixing a significant bug
- ✅ Discovering a gotcha
- ✅ Improving performance
- ✅ Refactoring architecture

### What to Update

- **ARCHITECTURE.md** - When changing how things work internally
- **IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md** - When adding common patterns
- **QUICK_REFERENCE.md** - When adding quick lookup info
- **CHANGELOG.md** - For every change (in root)
- **README.md** - For user-facing changes (in root)

## 🎯 Next Steps

### If you're just getting started:

1. Read [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) completely
2. Skim [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)
3. Run `npm run build` to see it compile
4. Make a small test change
5. Read [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) as needed

### If you're fixing a bug:

1. Reproduce the bug
2. Check [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md) → "Debugging Checklist"
3. Add logging to understand what's happening
4. Reference [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) → "Fixing Bugs"
5. Implement fix
6. Test thoroughly
7. Update docs if needed

### If you're adding a feature:

1. Read [IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md](IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md) → "Adding New Features"
2. Follow the step-by-step guide
3. Reference [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) for context
4. Write and test implementation
5. Update documentation
6. Update CHANGELOG.md

## 🆘 Getting Help

### Documentation Not Clear?

1. Check if answer is in another doc file
2. Look at source code comments
3. Create an issue on GitHub
4. Consider improving the docs for others

### Still Stuck?

- Review the original library: https://github.com/drozhzhin-n-e/ngx-pinch-zoom
- Check Angular docs: https://angular.dev
- Search GitHub issues
- Ask in Angular community forums

## 🎉 Contributing Back

If you improve the documentation or code:

1. Test your changes
2. Update relevant documentation
3. Follow commit message format
4. Create a pull request
5. Help others by sharing knowledge!

---

**Happy coding!** These docs are living documents - improve them as you learn! 🚀
